Chapter 1
1.2.1 What are hardware and software?
Hardware = the physical components of the computer which complete the commands of the program
Software = the program which gives the computer the commands to complete tasks.

1.2.2 List the five major hardware components of a computer.
CPU, Memory, Inputs, Output, Storage devices, Communication devices

1.2.3 What does the acronym CPU stand for? What unit is used to measure CPU speed?
Central processing unit → measured in hertz

1.2.4 What is a bit? What is a byte?
A bite is a unit of data that represents a single value in binary.
A byte is 8 bits.

1.2.5 What is memory for? What does RAM stand for? Why is memory called RAM?
Memory = computer’s work area for executing a program.
RAM = random access memory
Memory is called RAM because it stores all of the data for the processing of information, but then discards it when the computer is turned off.

1.2.6 What unit is used to measure memory size? What unit is used to measure disk size?
Memory size = measured in gigabytes

1.2.7 What is the primary difference between memory and a storage device?
Memory is the computer’s internal processing center whereas a storage device saves information externally

1.3.1 What language does the CPU understand?
Binary

1.3.2 What is an assembly language? What is an assembler?
An assembly language is the language used to translate binary into more understandable low level language prompts.
An assemblar is what assembles low level language into binary for the computer to understand. They are platform dependent.

1.3.3 What is a high-level programming language? What is a source program?
A high level language is a platform independent language used to write programs.
Source programs are programs written in a high level language.

1.3.4 What is an interpreter? What is a compiler?
An interpreter reads one statement from source code, translates it into machine code and runs it right away.
A compiler translates the whole program into a machine code file

1.3.5 What is the difference between an interpreted language and a compiled language?

1.4.1 What is an operating system? List some popular operating systems.
An operating system is a program that runs on a computer which controls the way the computer operates.
Popular operating systems = Windows, Mac, Linux

1.4.2 What are the major responsibilities of an operating system?
Scheduling operations to run, controlling and monitoring what happens in the system (i.e. mouse click, keyboard inputs, keeping track of files etc), allocating system resources for programmers to

1.4.3 What are multiprogramming, multithreading, and multiprocessing?
Multi programming → allows multiple programs to run at the same time on the same CPU by managing the cpu’s idle time
Multithreading → allows multiple tasks to run in the same program
Multiprocessing → allows multiple programs to run on multiple processors.


1.5.1 Who invented Java? Which company owns Java now?
Java was invented by James Goslin and Sun Microsystems. Oracle now owns java.

1.5.2 What is a Java applet?
A small application or program run from a web browser

1.5.3 What programming language does Android use?
Java

1.6.1 What is the Java language specification?
A set of rules of the syntax and semantics of the language

1.6.2 What does JDK stand for? What does JRE stand for?
Java Development Toolkit → a set of separate programs invoked from the command line for compiling, running and testing programs
Java Runtime Environment → program for running Java programs

1.6.3 What does IDE stand for?
Integrated Development Environment → where you write, compile, build and debug programs

1.6.4 Are tools like NetBeans and Eclipse different languages from Java, or are they dialects or extensions of Java?
They’re tools (IDEs) used for writing, compiling, building and debugging java programs

1.7.1 What is a keyword? List some Java keywords.
A keyword is a special word with special meaning that cannot be used anywhere else in the program
Main, class, static, void

1.7.2 Is Java case sensitive? What is the case for Java keywords?
Yes - i.e. you cannot replace private static main with private static Main

1.7.3 What is a comment? Is the comment ignored by the compiler? How do you denote a comment line and a comment paragraph?
A comment is a way of communicating with other programmers. It is ignored by the compiler.
Comment line = //
Comment paragraph = /* */

1.7.4 What is the statement to display a string on the console?
System.out.println

1.7.5 Show the output of the following code:

public class Test {
 public static void main(String[] args) {
 System.out.println("3.5 * 4 / 2 – 2.5 is ");
System.out.println(3.5 * 4 / 2 – 2.5);
   }
}

3.5 * 4 / 2 – 2.5 is 4.5


1.8.1 What is the Java source filename extension, and what is the Java bytecode filename extension?
Java source filename extension = .java
Java bytecode file extension = .class

1.8.2 What are the input and output of a Java compiler?
Input = source code, output = bytecode

1.8.3 What is the command to compile a Java program?
javac

1.8.4 What is the command to run a Java program?
Java + classname

1.8.5 What is the JVM?
Java virtual machine → an interpreter of the bytecode from the compiler

1.8.6 Can Java run on any machine? What is needed to run Java on a computer?
Yes, as long as the machine has a jVM installed

1.8.7 If a NoClassDefFoundError occurs when you run a program, what is the cause of the error?
It means that it couldn’t find the class that was specified.

1.8.8 If a NoSuchMethodError occurs when you run a program, what is the cause of the error?
The class does not have a main method, or the signature of the main method is incorrect

1.10.1 What are syntax errors (compile errors), runtime errors, and logic errors?
Syntax errors are errors with the syntax which prevent the program from compiling → due to errors in code constructions
Runtime errors occur after the program has already compiled and cause a program to terminate abnormally
Logic errors are errors due to poor logical thinking → program doesn't perform the way it was intended to

1.10.2 Give examples of syntax errors, runtime errors, and logic errors.
Syntax error → no closing bracket, no closing string, missing return type in method
Runtime error → arithmetic error (division by 0), NPE
Logic error → using integers instead of floats

1.10.3 If you forget to put a closing quotation mark on a string, what kind of error will be raised?
Syntax error

1.10.4 If your program needs to read integers, but the user entered strings, an error would occur when running this program. What kind of error is this?
Run time error

1.10.5 Suppose you write a program for computing the perimeter of a rectangle and you mistakenly write your program so it computes the area of a rectangle. What kind of error is this?
Logic error
